I'm Billy Joe with medical service
company I'm a respiratory therapist and
today I'm here to talk about the oxygen
concentrator machine some alarms and how
to attach humidity to it then how to
troubleshoot the machine just a little
bit so down here you can see this is the
concentrator machine here this is the on
and off button here right next to it is
a little alarm button this button does
move if you've had a power outage or a
power surge you'll see this button pop
up it's very obvious that it's popped
out you would want to unplug your
machine push the button back in plug
your machine in and then turn your
machine back on and that will reset this
alarm here then over here you've got a
little phone and a little red light that
will appear next to it
if that stays on you would want to call
your company and tell them that that red
light is on and it's alarming but to
troubleshoot that you'd want to do the
same thing turn your machine off unplug
it plug the machine back in turn the
machine back on and that should clear
that red light if it does not clear the
red light you would want to call medical
service company and let them know then
moving on a lot of times people have dry
noses so they could get a humidifier jar
this would be added on it will give you
moisture to your nose you would get two
pieces with a humidifier jar you would
get the jar and you will get this little
tube you have to have the little tube to
connect the jar if you do not have both
pieces you need to let medical service
company know because you're missing a
part so you can see you've got this end
here that screws it's going to go right
on the top of the jar you just want to
take this and you want to screw it in
there and then once it's screwed all the
way in this end will actually attach
right to your oxygen machine right above
the dial and then you can take this jar
and you can set it right in there and
that's a nice little holder for it then
on the end of your jar you want to take
your oxygen tubing then you will attach
your oxygen tubing right to this little
nipple that sticks out there that would
be attached and all ready to go but it's
a humidifier jar so you want to add
water to it you want to use distilled
water distilled water only and you would
unscrew the jar and you could take this
bottom part off and you've got this
little straw sticking out of it you
don't want this touching anything or
getting dirty then in here you've got
your jar you've got a minimum line and a
maximum line you want to fill the water
in between those lines remembering to
use distilled water only this humidifier
jar should be washed weekly with soapy
water just plain old dish soap wash it
rinse it out and let it dry and then you
can replace it on your machine you just
screw it on one problem that commonly
happens as you screw this on and you can
see here how the lids not on all the way
so just unscrew it and then re screw the
jar on to make sure it's connected all
the way sometimes when you're using the
humidifier jar you will not feel any
oxygen coming out one way to check that
is to actually disconnect the humidifier
jar from the concentrator remove your
oxygen tubing from the humidifier jar
and then you can connect your oxygen
tubing directly to your machine now if
you're getting oxygen you know there's a
problem with your humidifier jar another
way to check if you're getting oxygen is
to take the end of your cannula that
actually goes into your nose and you can
put it in a little glass of water and it
should bubble
I hope this was helpful if you have any
questions please feel free to call
medical service company or your
respiratory therapist at one eight
hundred eight two four one four zero
zero again that number is